
--- Page 1 ---
Call for Papers Thematic Issue Cahiers Agricultures
Family Farming in the Transition towards Sustainable Society
Coordinators:
Pierre-Marie Bosc (CIRAD)1, Kae Sekine (Aichi Gakuin University)2,
Nora McKeon (Rome 3 University, International University College of Turin)3,
and Jean-Michel Sourisseau (CIRAD)4
Summary
Family farming as well as smallholder agriculture and peasant agriculture, hereafter family farming,
are recognized as the dominant forms of agriculture both in the global north and the global south in
the past and the present. The literature of social sciences has demonstrated their persistence and
social legitimacy, their ability to fight for autonomy in the context of industrialization, globalization,
and urbanization of agri-food sector and rural communities as well as the constraints they are facing
(Bonanno, 1987; Brookfield and Parson, 2007 Sourisseau, 2015). At the same time, some of them
have embraced opportunities to supply their products to agri-food industry and have contributed to
the industrialization of agri-food for decades (Servolin, 1972; Friedmann, 1978). Characterized by its
own internal diversity, family farming increasingly encounters different forms of farming in rural
spaces, such as entrepreneur farming, corporate farming, transnational agribusinesses. The latter
often compete with the diverse types of family farming for local resources, political support, and
markets under the neoliberalization of agri-food policies (Sekine and Bonanno, 2016). To survive in
1 Email: pierre-marie.bosc@cirad.fr
2 Email: kaesekin@dpc.agu.ac.jp
3 Email: nora.mckeon@fastwebnet.it
4 Email: jean-michel.sourisseau@cirad.fr
1

--- Page 2 ---
economic crises, climate change, ecological degradation and regain autonomy, family farmers tend to
seek alternative forms of agri-food production such as agroecology and pursue food sovereignty in
cooperation with other social constituencies and civil society actors (Altieri, 1995; McKeon, 2015;
Gaitán-Cremaschi et al., 2022).
Over the last decade, the international community has conferred significant recognition to family
farming in the context of sustainable development (HLPE 2013). The declarations of the International
Year of Family Farming (2014), the United Nations Decade of Family Farming (2019-2028) and the UN
Declaration of the Rights of Peasants and Other People Working in Rural Areas (2018) testify to the
acknowledgement of the importance of family farmers, smallholders and peasants as key players in
the transition towards sustainable society. However, family farming continues to face significant
challenges such as difficulties in farm succession to younger generations (Gasselin et al., 2015),
gender inequity, environmental deterioration, market competition, lack of political support, sanitary
crises (Tittonell et al., 2021), technological change (Taveira et al., 2019; Goulet, 2020), and wars and
conflicts. The aim of this Thematic Issue is to share the outcomes of recent studies on family farming,
their struggles for autonomy and sustainability, collective approaches for rural revitalization, the new
forms of governance, constraints, and challenges, in the global north and in the global south. The
papers of both theoretical and empirical studies, and written in French and English are welcome.
Literature
Altieri MA. 1995. Agroecology: the science of sustainable agriculture, 2nd ed. Colorado: Westview
Press Inc. 433 p.
Bonanno A. 1987. Small farms: persistence with legitimation. Colorado: Westview Press Inc. 228 p.
Brookfield H, Parsons, H. 2007. Family farms: survival and prospect. Abingdon, UK: Routledge.269 p.
Friedmann H. 1978. Simple Commodity Production and Wage Labour in the American Plains, The
Journal of Peasant Studies, 6 (1): 71-100.
Gasselin P., Lardon S., Cerdan C., Loudiyi S., Sautier D. (coordination éditoriale), 2021. Coexistence et
confrontation des modèles agricoles et alimentaires. Un nouveau paradigme du développement
territorial ? Editions Quae, 396 pages.
Gasselin P., Choisis JP., Petit S., Purseigle F., & Zasser S. 2015. L'agriculture en famille : travailler,
réinventer, transmettre, EDP Science, 382 p.
Gaitán-Cremaschi D., Klerkx L., Aguilar-Gallegos N., Duncan J., Pizzolón A., Dogliotti S., & Rossing W.
A. 2022. Public food procurement from family farming: A food system and social network
perspective. Food Policy. 111: 102325.
Goulet F. 2020. Family farming and the emergence of an alternative sociotechnical imaginary in
Argentina. Science, Technology and Society. 25(1): 86-105.
HLPE. 2013. Investing in smallholder agriculture for food security. Rome: the High Level Panel of
Experts on Food Security and Nutrition of the Committee on World Food Security. 112 p.
McKeon N. 2015. Food security governance: empowering communities, regulating corporations.
2

--- Page 3 ---
Routledge Critical Security Studies. 246p.
Servolin C. 1972. L'absorption de l'agriculture dans le mode de production capitaliste. In: L'univers
politique des paysans dans la France contemporaine, sous la direction de Yves Tavernier, Y., Gervais,
M. et Servolin, C. Paris : Presses de Sciences Po. pp.41-77.
Sourisseau JM (ed.). 2015. Family farming and the worlds to come. New York: Springer. 361 p.
Sekine K, Bonanno A. 2016. The contradictions of neoliberal agri-food: corporations, resistance, and
disasters in Japan. Morgantown: West Virginia University Press. 240 p.
Taveira L. R. S., Carvalho T. S. D., Teixeira A. F. D. S., & Curi N. 2019. Sustainable productive
intensification for family farming in developing tropical countries. Ciência e Agrotecnologia. 43,
12 p.
Tittonell, P., Fernandez, M., El Mujtar, V. E., Preiss, P. V., Sarapura, S., Laborda, L., & Cardoso, I. M.
2021. Emerging responses to the COVID-19 crisis from family farming and the agroecology
movement in Latin America–A rediscovery of food, farmers and collective action. Agricultural
Systems. 190: 103098.
The proposed Thematic Issue
We propose a Thematic Issue that includes a set of invited papers that we collected through the
sessions held at the 15th World Congress of Rural Sociology of the International Rural Sociology
Association in July 2022 in Cairns, Australia as well as others’ papers. Pierre-Marie Bosc and Kae
Sekine who authored HLPE (2013) and co-organized one of these sessions, Nora McKeon who led the
discussions on food security governance in the UN/CFS and delivered a keynote speech in the
congress, and Jean-Michel Sourisseau who follows and participates in the International Decade of
Family Farming for CIRAD, serve as coordinators of this Thematic Issue. In particular, they are in charge
of the pre-selection, on the basis of the abstracts, of the proposed papers, then of their final selection
on the basis of the full papers (according to the standards of the journal), before the authors can
submit them online to Cahiers Agriculture. The papers will be selected based on their quality
according to the rules of the journal. Special attention will be paid to the papers that shed light on
the recent evolution of family farming / smallholders, their efforts to the transitions towards
sustainable society, related public policies, constraints, and their capacities to cope with the current
challenges in the global south and in the global north.
3

--- Page 4 ---
Schedule
This is a schedule for deadlines, meaning that the papers will be published on-line as soon as they
are accepted before being printed and bound as the thematic issue.
Deadlines Who does what
December 9th, 2022 Authors submit the titles, abstracts (within 300 words) and keywords
(within 5) as well as authors’ affiliations and email addresses to the
coordinators.
December 22nd, The coordinators (a) select and send comments on the abstracts to the
2022 authors, and (b) inform the editorial board of the potential papers to be
published based on the abstracts.
March 1st, 2023 Authors submit full papers to the coordinators who are in charge of verifying
the papers’ conformity to the Journal’s instructions. Once approved,
authors submit their papers on the journal's platform, specifying that it is
intended for the thematic issue. The papers then undergo the peer-review
process (double-blind peer review) under the supervision of the editorial
board, in relation with the coordinators whenever needed. The full papers
will be published online as soon as it is accepted.
October 31st, 2023 Online publication of the complete thematic issue.
December 31st 2023 Printing of paper copies of the thematic issue.
4