URL: https://www.usgs.gov/apps/croplands/gfsadce30info
Titre: GFSAD30CE Info

GFSAD30CE Info
Data
Reference Data (All)
LPDAAC Data
Products
Web Map (Products)
Area Maps
Cropland Percent to Total Global Cropland
Cropland Percent to Country Land Area
Cropland per Capita
Cropland by Continent
Cropland Percent of Land Area by Continent
Final Map
Interactive Cropland Area Maps
Interactive Accuracy Maps
Information
About Global Croplands
FAQs
GFSAD30CE Info
Contacts
Documents
Download Data
Publications
GFSAD30 USGS Site
Search
Search
GFSAD30CE Information
Global Food Security-support Analysis Data (GFSAD) Cropland Extent 30 m V001 for nominal Year 2015 (GFSAD30CE V001)
Global Food Security-support Analysis Data (GFSAD) Cropland Extent 30 m V001
(GFSAD30CE V001)
is the highest spatial resolution global croplands map to date. It was created to help support global food and water security studies for nominal year 2015. It was created by the global food security-support analysis data @ 30-m (GFSAD30) Project Team
(https://geography.wr.usgs.gov/science/croplands/index.html)
who’s goal is to map global croplands and their attributes routinely, rapidly, consistently and accurately year after year.
The project is a collaborative effort among the USGS, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Bay Area Environmental Research Institute, University of New Hampshire, California State University Monterey Bay, University of Wisconsin, Northern Arizona University, International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics, U.S. Department of Agriculture, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Indonesian Agency for Agricultural Research and Development, and Google.
The project is funded by NASA’s Making Earth System Data Records for Use in Research Environments Program, with supplemental funding from the USGS. The project's Principal Investigator is Dr. Prasad S. Thenkabail
(pthenkabail@usgs.gov)
with co-investigators and team members from multiple institutes
(https://geography.wr.usgs.gov/science/croplands/team.html).
The global product was derived from 7 continental or very large area cropland extent products. Users should cite each product based on the areas used. If you are using the entire World’s data, then please quote all the listed references below. Detailed algorithm theoretical basis documents (ATBD's), user guides, and official data download site is done through the Land Processes Distributed Active Archive Center (LP DAAC).
Global Food Security-support Analysis Data (GFSAD) Cropland Extent 30 m V001 (GFSAD30CE V001) through GEE should visit the following LP DAAC site to find ATBD's, and user guides which are available for each continents and\or large study areas:
https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/news/release-of-gfsad-30-meter-cropland-extent-products
This dataset contains one band, cropland extent, with 0 = Ocean or inland waterbody, 1 = Non-Cropland, 2 = Cropland. The product was created from two machine learning algorithms (MLA’s). These were pixel-based supervised: (a) random forest classifications, and (b) support vector machin